---
title: "Stuff"
date: 2013-08-4
template: "post.hbs"
---

## My self-summary

I...

have lived 12 years in barcelona.

loose things and find things... I mostly find things.

Two soccer goals and one basketball ring have fallen on my head. 

have never broken a bone.

grew up in a island.

have a deficit of 20,000 hours watching TV, pop culture references often go right over my head. I'm mostly okay with this.

was a graffity writer- walls and trains. I disliked street artists. Then became obsesed with street art. I still get annoyed with people who use graffiti and street art interchangabily.

was born in Florida.

Never owned a pair of rainboots. I bought my first umbrella ever in NY. Then I got an umbrella stolen for the first time. Bought my second umbrella ever in NYC. Then I got an umbrella stolen for the second time.  Then, I bought a third umbrella.

do calligraphy.

just realized that i've ownned the same belt for 20 years. Worn it almost every day.

once told a teacher that my rabbit had eaten my homework. The teacher was not amused, the rabits name was Mr. Poopsy. I was 21.

moved to NY a year ago.

am a software engineer.

## I’m really good at
listening intensely and keeping secrets, giving stuff away.
spear fishing, playing soccer, sports in general.
I enjoy drawing 

## The first things people usually notice about me
oh, you are so tall! Thank you, I never noticed...


## Favorite books, movies, shows, music, and food
Latest reads Howard Zinn, Kerouac, Cormac McCarthy, George RR Martin... I went through Hermann Hesse, Nietzsche, Camus, and the russians as a teenager. I am still trying to recover. Im my late teens consumed huges ammounts of Calvin&Hobbes, Mafalda, and Dr Seuss to compensate.
Erich Fromm, Yamamoto Tsunetomo's Hagakure, Machiavelli's The Prince, Tzun Tzu The Art of War. Saint-Exupéry. A Confederacy of Dunces. Luis Racionero, Filosofías del Underground.
**Eduardo Galeano** >> JL Borges >> Gabriel Garcia Marquez >> Mario Vargas Llosa. 

While walking I'm listening to spanish hip hop, three artist that transcend the genre: Juaninacka, Rapsusklei, Shariff. 
At work, Wildcat! Wildcat!, Yann Tiersen, Chromatics, Kishi Bashi, Bondax, Alt-J, Beirut, Alison Krauss & Union Station, Sonlux, Man Man. At the gym old school HH.
Bob Dylan, Bob Seger, B.B. King, Carlos Gardel, Silvio Rodríguez, Manal, Sui Generis... have a special place in my heart.

The Wire, Futurama, and Family Guy. 

Snatch, Memento, Biutiful, The Intouchables, Café de flore, La Haine, Nine Queens, Avellaneda's Moon, The Official Story, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, Pan's Labyrinth...  

## time thinking
cognition/perception. Perceptual set. How expectations and motivations change our perception of reality. "We don’t see things as they are, we see them as we are."

##
A little bit over a year ago I gave all my stuff away and jumped into an airplane.
I had a plan.
The plan did not pan out so well, so I had to improvise.
After month and a half and a few interviews, I landed a full time gig as a Software Engineer at XXXXXX. It's a pretty cool job- I love the people, and I genuinely enjoy what I do.


###
Which is worse: starving children or abused animals? If you answered